Hi there, and welcome to this Pluralsight course,
Monitoring an Event Response on AWS for DevOps Engineers.
My name is Mike Brown.
And in this module,
we're going to look at using Amazon CloudWatch for incident response.
In this module, we're first going discuss event‑driven automation.
We're then going to talk about automated event management and healing before
working with CloudWatch event rules to invoke a step function.
Finally,
we're going to finish off this module with a quick course and module review.
Let's begin then by understanding event‑driven automation.
Our customer, Globomantics, has some final requirements for us.
Currently,
Globomantics' support teams receive daily updates
on the status of their services.
They then use these updates to identify any issues,
prioritize the issues, and then address those issues.
Globomantics' security teams receive information in a similar way,
except they receive email alerts whenever security event is reported.
They then respond to those events, addressing any issues that were highlighted.
At present, Globomantics' time to detect and resolve issues is measured in hours.
We have been asked to help.
Specifically,
we've been asked to improve Globomantics' response time to
performance availability and security issues.
And to do that,
we're going back to an idea that we've mentioned
several times during this course, namely,
automation is the key to success.
Let the AWS services do the hard work, and we'll take the credit.
Now,
there's lots of frameworks out there that you can
follow that govern incident response.
Most of them will have a stepped approach where they break
down incident response into various stages.
For example, detect.
We need to use AWS services like CloudWatch events,
EventBridge,
and the various logging services to help us detect when there's a problem,
either infrastructure related orsecurity related,
doesn't really matter.
We need to deploy features that will detect events that are important to us.
Once detected,
we need to respond and this involves configuring the automation
processes to respond to the detected events.
We also need to report everything.
We need to alert the relevant teams when an event occurs.
Both the event itself and the automated resolution should be
logged in your IT service management system.
In AWS then,
we have a whole series of tools that will help with our event‑driven automation.
Starting off then with a whole series of services around events and logging.
These are the services that are going to detect the
events that we want to react to.
Some of them we've discussed already, like CloudWatch events or EventBridge.
Both of these allow us to pick up events from our deployed infrastructure,
as well as AWS system health events.
EventBridge extends the capabilities of CloudWatch events to
include custom event busses that allow us to more easily
integrate our applications with events services and an integrate
third‑party SaaS applications.
We also have AWS Config.
Now, AWS Config keeps track of all the deployed resources in a particular region.
It will automatically keep a compliance timeline and a
configuration timeline for those resources.
So if we deploy an EC2 instance,
AWS Config will tell us how that instance has changed over time.
We could then configure compliance rules in AWS Config.
These rules perform checks against the AWS resources deployed to
the region and can take remediation action.
So if I have an AWS Config rule that says that all
deployed EC2 instances must be m5.xlarge instances and my
rule detect some small instances,
then my rule could trigger a Lambda function that stops the EC2 instances,
changes their size, and restarts them again.
So AWS Config is a great service that will help us maintain our desired state.
Amazon S3 also supports an event notification service,
so we can configure S3 event rules on specific buckets,
and these rules can monitor for particular methods,
like PUTs and GETs.
And when one of these actions is seen on the bucket,
the event notification can trigger a Lambda function,
send a message to an SNS topic, or put a message in an SQS queue.
Lots of services have evolved in logging in AWS.
These include CloudTrail,
and we've already discussed CloudTrail a few times in this course.
From the CloudTrails is our ordering service in AWS.
We also have logs like VPC Flow Logs.
VPC Flow Logs can track accepted or rejected flows through our VPCs,
and we can monitor VPC flows from inside VPC,
an individual subnet, or individual network adaptors.
Now, these flow logs don't capture payload information,
but they do capture all the header information.
We also have logs provided by security devices,
like the web application firewall.
Today, we can have global WAFs that sit with CloudFront,
and we can have regional WAFs that sit with our
application load balancers and our API gateways.
Either way,
WAFs let us create rules that will either allow or
deny certain types of traffic,
and everything the WAF is doing can be logged, and we can
use those logs for our security response.
So all of these services and many more log information, usually
either to CloudWatch, S3, or a combination of the 2.
If the previous tools allow us to detect events,
this next set of tools allow us to make sense of those events and
to alert us that certain events have occurred.
So we've already mentioned AWS Config rules.
These see a particular configuration, make a judgment on that
configuration, and decide whether the configuration is compliant
or noncompliant with a config rule.
If a configuration is noncompliant, we can instate automation actions.
We have Amazon CloudWatch, and specifically here, we have CloudWatch alarms.
We set up alarms based on specific metrics, and when a metric is
above a certain threshold, action is taken.
We also have products like AWS Inspector. Inspector looks at your operating
systems and your installed applications, and it's looking specifically for
security vulnerabilities based on some preconfigured assessments. We can then
take the results of these security assessments and use them to harden our
operating systems and applications. For our security team, Amazon GuardDuty is
a really powerful tool.
It's focus is around visibility of security events. Using GuardDuty then, we can
be alerted when there's a security threat to our accounts.
We then have integration with machine learning.
Amazon Macie, for example, is all about information protection.
It will use machine learning to help categorize the information inside your
AWS account and help protect us from information leakage.
Also,
Amazon Detective. Amazon Detective will look at all your login
information inside your AWS account, bringing that into one place, it
will then use machine learning to identify any anomalous activities and
alert you to potential security threats.
So each of these tools gives us visibility into our configurations, into our
security postures, and they allow us to generate alerts so we can be
informed about configuration security issues, and also, by using the alerts
to instigate automation steps. For automation in AWS, we have Lambda. Lambda
is a service compute platform.
Lambda, not only sits at the heart of our service application designs,
but it can also run code in response to events. And we have
step functions. Step functions allow us to coordinate a set
of steps in response to an event.
So what if you want to trigger several Lambda functions? You
might want these functions to run in parallel,
or you might want the functions to run sequentially, while step
functions is your tool for creating workflows based on AWS services.
And we have AWS Systems Manager. Systems Manager gives you visibility
and control of your infrastructure.
Its core components are all about working with your EC2
instances and managing everything from patching,
fleet‑wide sets of automated commands,
as well as keeping track of inventory reporting and
general health of your deployed instances.
Our goal then must be better response to improve our meantime to detect and
our meantime to resolve issues with our infrastructure.
This will give us more time to innovate.
We'll be able to spend our time on the next big thing or improving what we
already have instead of reacting to events that can be automated. Have a
think of your AWS‑deployed infrastructure.
What areas would you like to automate?
Once you've identified things that you'd like to automate, you go ahead and
spend a bit of time matching those things against AWS services that can
provide the automation. For Globomantics, their support team really want us
to automate responses to failures.
This will primarily involve setting up rules in CloudWatch or
EventBridge, to detect a failure, and then triggering Lambda
functions or step functions.
The security team wants to detect and respond to security threats.
This will involve setting up automation with tools like AWS Config,
GuardDuty, as well as integrating products like Amazon Inspector
and the machine learning tools, Macie and Detective. And again, we
want to report everything.
So not just that we detect an event, something was
triggered, and now it's fixed,
but exactly what happened on each stage of the process.
That way, we can learn from all the information and use it to tune our event responses in the future.